
_This page is part of the [[Draft OpenRaster specification|Specifications/OpenRaster/Draft]]. It has archived [[discussion threads|Specifications/OpenRaster/Draft/FileLayout/Discussion]]._ 



---

 

:_Status: what is already specified is pretty much final_ 


# OpenRaster File Layout


## Storage

OpenRaster files have the file name extension **.ora**. The data is stored within a [[Zip file|http://www.pkware.com/documents/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT]] wrapper. 

_Technical note: Zip files can use a different compression algorithm on a per-file basis. Only DEFLATED and STORED should be used for OpenRaster files. The file names within OpenRaster "zip files" are case-sensitive and must be UTF-8 encoded. If you decide to write non-ascii file names, be aware that the Zip format has an UTF-8 flag for each file name. Make sure this flag is set, otherwise the content might get decoded as cp437. Notw also that the Zip file format has a 64bit extension which must be enabled to write files larger than 4GB._ 

This file format is hereafter referred to as an "OpenRaster file" in this specification. It has a number of required and optional standard files and subdirectories within it: 


[[!format txt """
example.ora  [considered as a folder-like object]
 ├ mimetype
 ├ stack.xml
 ├ data/
 │  ├ [image data files referenced by stack.xml, typically layer*.png]
 │  └ [other data files, indexed elsewhere]
 ├ Thumbnails/
 │  └ thumbnail.png
 └ [mergedimage.png (optional)]
"""]]

## Required Files


### mimetype

The first file in the archive must be called "`mimetype`", without a file name extension. It must be STORED without compression. This file must contain the string "`image/openraster`", with no whitespace or trailing newline. 


### stack.xml

This is the UTF-8 encoded XML file from the [[Layers Stack Specification|Specifications/OpenRaster/Draft/LayersStack]]. 


### data

This directory is (by convention) where data files are usually stored. Files must be referenced in `stack.xml` by their full path relative to the OpenRaster file's root, e.g. "`data/layer2.png`". 

All files inside this directory should be referenced from somewhere. Well known file name extensions (like .png) should be lower case. 


### Thumbnails/thumbnail.png

An OpenRaster file _must_ have a `thumbnail.png` in order to allow file browser software to render the thumbnail effciently. It _must_ be a non-interlaced PNG with 8 bits per channel of at most 256x256 pixels. It _should_ be as big as possible without upscaling or changing the aspect ratio. Any aspect ratio is permitted. It _should not_ contain any frame or decoration. 

The thumbnail file must not be referenced in any `.xml` file. 


## Optional Files


### mergedimage.png

An OpenRaster file _may_ contain the final rendered image without any frame or decoration. This file _must_ be a PNG file with 8 or 16 bits per channel. The `mergedimage.png` file is obligatory in the Archival Intent. 
